>>ERICH VON DANIKEN:
We have all heard
of the myths and the
legends of our history,
but is there another story?
[THEME MUSIC]
I believe that there is
a connection between all
these old places worldwide,
and at least in Europe, you
can clearly prove it.
You can show it.
Over Europe are
so-called sacred lines,
sometimes they
call it ley lines.
What is such a line?
For example, just take a
ruler, take a map of Europe,
take a ruler, make
a line over the map.
And by coincidence,
of course, these lines
will always cross some
religious, no doubt.
The problem is, only in
Europe, we have such a line
and under the line, every place
is an archaeological place,
a prehistorical place, like
a few stones, stone rings,
tombs in here.
It's all prehistoric.
Now, you can say, OK,
it's still coincidence.
Just make a line over a map.
No.
It's not coincidence.
Because all these villages
have the same root words.
You can prove it.
You see, for example, Calais,
Mount Alix, L'Allex, L'Allet,
et cetera.
This crosses even the Alps
and ends down in Sicily.
So under the line,
you do not only
have archaeological
prehistoric signs,
all the villages have
the same root word in it,
and that makes it provable.
Cannot be coincidence.
Well, for example, we
have one of these lines
over the Pyrenees.
The Pyrenees are--
on one side is France
and on the other side is Spain.
Now the Pyrenees are
mountains, and there is
one line crossing the Pyrenees.
And of course, this
line crosses, again,
several villages.
The problem is the villages are
not only prehistoric places,
every word in every villages
contains the name "star."
if you look at the, for example,
Lizette, French, the stars.
Liciella means the stars.
All the line crossing
the Pyrenees ends--
for example, Aster.
Aster means the star.
The leading place is
Santiago de Compostela.
Stela is the star.
And this is from
pre-historic times.
So it cannot be coincidence.
They call it the Street
of the Stars today.
The extraterrestrials
ordered our forefathers,
please make this, because your
generations later, thousands
of years later, will
realize it, and they
will ask the real questions.
It's just the lines, which go
for thousands and thousands
of kilometers from
the north of Germany,
crossing Germany, crossing
Switzerland, crossing the Alps,
crossing Italy,
ending in Sicily.
It's just a line for
thousands of kilometers
with the same religious
and in the religious,
some prehistoric,
mysterious sites.
So you can prove
it's not coincidence.
You see, our prehistoric
time, they had difficulties
to cross the Alps, for example.
They did not know what is on
the other side of the Alps.
The Alps are, this is a
border of four kilometers
high, 4,000 meters high.
So somebody told them,
OK, make your holy place,
but please make it exactly here
and here and here and here.
They knew the future generations
would stumble over it.
You see, one of
these lines crosses
Brittany over Stonehenge,
crosses Europe,
crosses the Alps, and
ends right in Delphi.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Delphi is the holy
place in Greece.
Delphi was the place
of the god Apollo.
Apollo, again,
was a son of Zeus,
and Apollo did not come
by coincidence to Delphi.
Apollo, so says the legend,
Apollo was surrounding,
in a flying chariot, the Earth.
And there, in today's
Delphi, he realized
that there were people, humans.
They wanted to learn them.
That was the reason why
he came down in Delphi.
The people at that time were
still, technologically seen,
primitive.
Apollo taught them how to
construct houses, houses
on a mountain and on a hill
so that the houses would not
fall down, even if it's
a hard rain, for example.
Apollo also taught
them in astronomy.
Apollo had a son, Asclepius, and
he was the doctor in medicine.
He taught the
humans in medicine.
Apollo, itself, it says,
he had the flying machines;
flying wings.
And every year, twice,
Apollo left Delphi
and flew to a faraway
land in the far north.
So the legend of Apollo
is connected with flying.
I had a speech in Delphi some
years ago, and after my speech,
there were a professor of
archeology coming to me
and also a high Greek military.
He was from the military,
from the Air Force,
the Greek Air Force.
And they told me,
Erich, do you know
that all these old holy
places in Greek, they
are linked together
geometrically?
I said, no.
This is not possible,
because Greece
is a land full of
mountains and hills,
and some of these places,
they are in the ocean.
You know, islands like Crete
you cannot see by the naked eye.
It makes no sense
that they would
be connected geometrically.
The next morning, I was
invited at the airport,
at the military airport, and
the professor of archeology
was there and the commander in
chief of the Air Force also.
And they had a gigantic
map of Greece on a table.
And I asked them, but what do
you have to do with archeology?
I mean, you are a man of
military, of the Air Force.
What do you have to
do with archeology?
And he said to me, Erich,
it's pure coincidence.
Our young pilots,
which we teach,
they always have to
make some exercise.
For example,
exercises in shooting,
exercises in
measuring, et cetera.
And by the end, when they
come back from their flight,
they have to fill out a report.
And it's kind of--
it was curious
that most of the pilots
always in their reports
have used the same
amount of gasoline.
And the military man
said, we said, come on.
What is this?
This is not possible.
Simply, they started
to measure, and they
realized it's always the
same distance between one
place and the other.
That's how it all came to light.
And the man simply showed
me, look, from one point
to the next, it always makes
the so-called golden section,
always the same distance
from one point to the other.
And I said, how
is this possible?
Because in Greek, we had
brilliant mathematicians.
For example, Euclid
was a mathematician.
Pythagoras was a mathematician.
Even Plato was writing
about Greek mythology.
So I said, well, they
calculated this somehow.
And the professor of
archeology said, no, Erich.
This is a mistake.
Because all these
places were holy
places already in
Stone Age time.
Only later, for
example, in Delphi,
we have today a temple
called Apollo temple.
And Apollo temple is constructed
over Stone Age walls.
The Stone Age walls
are much older
than today's Apollo
temple, which
dates from the classic Greek,
more or less 2000, 2400,
2500 BC.
All these places are
older, so they have nothing
to do with Euclid, with
Pythagoras, with Plato,
with these mathematicians.
They existed all before.
So now I was at this airport,
and the professor of archeology
took a compass and
said Erich, you
can prove it very, very easy.
Just go with the
center of the compass
to any archaeological place,
for example to Delphi,
or to Epidaurus, or to
Knossos, it doesn't matter.
And then you point another
archeological place,
a second archeological place,
and then you make a circle.
The circle will always cross
at least two other holy places
from antiquity.
And you can repeat
this game 28 times.
So every coincidence is out.
It was done on purpose.
Somebody in antiquity told
our Stone Age ancestors, OK,
you want to make a
temple in our honor.
We are happy to hear this, but
please, construct it only here.
And the next one, you
construct it only here.
They knew in advance
that thousands of years
later, the humans would fly.
The humans would
measure their countries.
The humans would realize
all of a sudden, my god,
all these old places in
Greece are linked together
geometrically even with
the Mediterranean Sea,
and this cannot be coincidence.
The question is just why.
Extraterrestrials some
thousands of years ago,
they left, somewhere, a proof.
With the proof,
I mean something.
I have no word of it.
I call it a time capsule.
Something which
cannot be destroyed.
And in this time
capsule, they would tell,
we were here from that solar
system with that technology.
We found you or your
mankind at that time.
We helped them, et
cetera, et cetera.
We will return in the
far future then again.
Now, if you create
a time capsule,
a message for future generations
in the far future, how will you
hide this message?
Can you put it in a
pyramid or in a temple?
It makes no sense because
throughout the thousands
of years there might be wars.
There might be
religious leaders who
will destroy the temple of the
earlier religion, et cetera.
Or there are earthquakes
or tsunamis or whatever.
Everything can be destroyed
throughout the thousands
of years.
So they must find a place to
deposit their time capsule
where, throughout thousands of
years, it cannot be destroyed,
wherever that place is.
For myself, the most logical
place would be in orbit.
They simply bring their
time capsule, their message,
in a satellite and bring
the satellite in orbit
around the Earth.
Now, during thousands
of years, this satellite
would turn around the Earth.
No one can destroy it.
No earthquakes, no animals,
no dictator, no one
can destroy it.
And only the space
travel generation
would be able to find
it, to collect it,
because all the
other generations,
they could not
understand the message.
If, for example, they
would have left their time
capsule somewhere in a pyramid.
Now, archaeologists, let's
say, 200 years ago in the past,
they find this message, and they
would even be able to read it.
They would say,
well, it's mythology.
Somebody is talking
about the stars,
but this is impossible
from the stars.
It must be mythology.
So it comes out
with speculation.
They don't take it for serious.
So this time capsule has to be
addressed for a society which
knows space travel.
Now, the problem is,
you've found the place
for a deposit of
the space travel,
somewhere on Earth or in orbit.
How do you manage it that the
generations in the far future
will go and look for
this time capsule?
If you don't know that somewhere
there should be such a--
you will never go
and look for it.
That's why they
told our ancestors.
Be it in French Brittany.
Make these lines
of stones exactly
geometrical
Pythagorean triangle.
They told our European
Stone Age people,
OK, make your holy
places but only on that
and that and that position.
Because they knew gigantic lines
of 3,000 kilometers or more
would be the result of it.
That's why they told
the ancient Greeks, OK.
You wish to make a
place in our honor?
Please do it, but only on
that place and that place.
They knew exactly that
generations in the far future
would realize it, the
geometrical problem.
Now, they would come to their
head, what's wrong here?
How is this possible?
Someone may come up
having maybe been
visited by extraterrestrials,
and if, yes--
they will say, well,
extraterrestrials
would not just have left
us without the proof.
There must be proof, a writing,
a message, a time capsule
somewhere, but without
the geometrical pattern,
the generations in
the future would never
come up with the question.
So you have to make
these things in the past
that the future
generation is baffled.
Hey, hey, what's this?
We have a fact of the
geometrical problem,
and we have the fact
of these holy places,
and they are all
thousands of years old.
They are created in
Stone Age time, nothing
classical Greek time,
long before Pythagoras,
et cetera, Euclid.
So we have the miracle.
We have the fact
these things exist.
We have the question.
There must be a time capsule.
Now, it's time that
we go out there
and look for a time capsule.
You see, our astronomy today,
with the space shuttle,
it would be easy to
go up there to look
if there is an artificial
satellite up there.
But nobody does it because
nobody has the question.
Now we live in the time
where we have the questions.
Now, we should take the
courage to go out there,
to measure our solar
system and look
if there is an artificial
object, the time capsule
of the extraterrestrials.
We know of different artifacts,
which are surrounding the Earth
since a long, long time.
They were up there before
the first satellite
of the Russians, Sputnik.
Later the American
satellites were there.
We know it for sure,
but in science, it
is normal to always look for the
next plausible, natural answer
before you look
for some fantasies.
So the natural scientific
answer for these artifacts
which do exist in
orbit is, it must
be a piece of rock,
just a piece of stone,
which by coincidence, came
into the gravity, maybe
from a meteorite who exploded.
By coincidence, it came to the
gravity of our solar system
and surrounds our planet.
So that's the next
possible scientific answer.
That's why they
do not spend money
to go there and
collect this artifact.
But definitely, we
know of some artifacts
which surround our globe
in different orbits
before we started
our modern shuttle.
The gods were the
extraterrestrials.
Our ancestors admired the gods.
The gods were the teachers.
Our humans could not understand,
how can someone fly up there?
How can someone have weapons,
lightening, strange things?
Our humans did not
understand the technology,
so they adored the gods.
The gods were, in reality,
extraterrestrials.
And the gods tell
them, make your temple
or your holy-- your
place here, because it
is linked with the gods.
At least for our ancestors,
some thousands of years
ago, they were holy places.
The ley lines are definitely
not natural lines.
They are definitely
made by humans.
All these holy, sacred
places are put in one line
because the so-called
gods wanted it that way.
So ley line is nothing natural.
Ley lines are made
artificially by humans
but in order of the gods.
When you have small
lines, French Britanny,
you have lines which
are 2,860 meters.
That's nothing.
There they could do it,
humans, without the gods.
But as soon as you have lines
crossing the Alps, 3,000
kilometers, or in
ancient Greek, you
have this geometrical pattern,
where every pre-historical site
is linked together
with the next one.
And you cannot see
it by your eyes.
It is not possible.
That for example, an old
Greek priest says, hey, OK.
The next temple we make there.
Because there are mountains
between them you cannot see
with the naked eye.
Or from Delphi, you cannot
look with the naked eye
to the island of Crete.
Somebody has to guide you.
You cannot do it
by the naked eye,
and the guidance came from the
extraterrestrials, the gods.
These holy places, they
exist since eternity,
since Stone Age times
so nothing has changed.
You can't change nothing there.
There are books on the
market, for example,
from a New Zealand pilot.
His name is Bruce Cathie,
and he has a world grid,
which these lines go
all over the planet,
including in faraway
Peru, Easter Island.
All these places
are linked together.
But this is not my research,
which I can personally confirm,
because I did not
make this research.
But it's out in the books of
Bruce Cathie, is his name.
He was an airline pilot
for Air New Zealand.
And his books are on
the market, and he
says there is all geometry,
all linked together.
I know it for sure for Europe,
the so-called ley lines,
because we can prove it with
the same names, the same root
words.
And you can prove it
definitely in Greece.
All you need is a compass and
you have places linked together
in the same distances.
The reasons for the ley lines
and for this so-called holy
or sacred geometry are us.
The extraterrestrials ordered
our prehistoric ancestors,
make your temples on
that and that place.
Because they knew the future
generations, thousands of years
in the future, they will
measure their countries.
They will fly, and then
they will realize that this
geometrical pattern
cannot be coincidence.
So this was made on
purpose, and now they
come up with the questions.
That's exactly what we have.
Extraterrestrials,
were they here?
Where is the proof?
Where is the time capsule?
Without the
geometrical pattern, we
would never ask the question.
That's why it has to
be done in the past.
I'm Eric von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[THEME MUSIC]